About the situation of prevention and control of pneumonia caused by new coronavirus infection in our city
(January 17, 2020)
Issuing authority: Wuhan City health committee | Published: 2020-01-18 00:13:26 | Hits:  34120  | Font Size:  Tai Zhong Small
 

      I. About the new cases

       On January 16, 2020, experts from provinces and municipalities newly identified 4 cases of pneumonia with new coronavirus infection based on the clinical manifestations, epidemiological history of the patients, and the results detected by the diagnostic kit issued by the country. The four patients were all male. They developed symptoms from January 5 to 8, 2020, and were admitted to the hospital from January 8 to 13. The symptoms improved after treatment, and the condition is stable. They have been transferred to Wuhan Jinyintan Hospital for centralized treatment. . Epidemiological investigations of the four new cases are underway, and close contacts are also being tracked.

    Second, the main measures for the prevention and control of the recent epidemic

Further do a good job in the management of pre-inspection and triage of medical institutions at all levels, and early diagnosis, early detection, early isolation, and early treatment. Continue to sanitize the South China Seafood Wholesale Market, other agricultural fairs in the city, and the living environment of related hospitals, patients and close contacts. Carry out a patriotic health campaign with the theme of “renovating the environment, cleaning homes, and welcoming the festival” to promote a healthy lifestyle.

3. Related situation of close contacts of overseas confirmed cases

Seventeen close contacts of the first confirmed patient in Thailand were tracked, all of which were included in medical observation. One of them had symptoms of low fever and mild cough and was transferred to designated hospitals for treatment. Personnel information, tracking of close family contacts; 4 cases of close family contacts have been tracked for patients notified in Japan, and all have been included in medical observation.

Source: http://wjw.wuhan.gov.cn/front/web/showDetail/2020011809065