The Central Epidemic Epidemic Command Center announced cases of severe domestic special infectious pneumonia, and health units have started prevention and treatment in accordance with relevant disposal procedures.
FacebookShare to Facebook (new window opens)LineShare to Line (new window opens)PrintPrint (new window opens)
linkGet short URL
Back to previous page
Release date: 2020-01-28
The Central Epidemic Outbreak Command Center announced the eighth confirmed case of severe special infectious pneumonia in our country. It is a male in his mid 50s and a family member who had previously been diagnosed with the fifth case of overseas immigration. The diagnosis was confirmed today (28), and it was determined that the family was infected. At present, the case is in a stable condition, and hospitals and local health units have followed the relevant disposal procedures to carry out contact tracking and other preventive work. In order to make home isolation and home quarantine more practical, smart technology will be used to assist in the implementation of epidemic prevention work in the future.

According to the command center statistics, as of 4:00 pm on January 28, 52 cases of severe special infectious pneumonia were reported in China. As of now, a total of 578 cases of severe special infectious pneumonia have been reported. The test results are 8 confirmed diagnoses, 321 excluded, Seventy-five patients were negative at the initial test, and the rest were still to be tested; another nine patients were previously reported for pneumonia of unknown cause, which have been ruled out.

A total of 69 cases were diagnosed internationally (excluding Taiwan), which were distributed in 16 countries, and Cambodia, Sri Lanka and Germany were added to the total number of 3 countries the day before. There were 14 cases in Thailand, 8 in Hong Kong, 7 in Macau, 5 in the United States, 5 in Australia, 5 in Singapore, 4 in Malaysia, 6 in Japan, 4 in South Korea, 3 in France, 2 in Vietnam, 2 in Canada, There was 1 case in Nepal, 1 case in Cambodia, 1 case in Sri Lanka, and 1 case in Germany.

The command center once again appealed to the public to report to the airport and port quarantine personnel any uncomfortable symptoms such as fever and cough when entering the country from abroad; if the above-mentioned suspected symptoms occur within 14 days of returning to the country, they can call the toll-free epidemic prevention line 1922 (or 0800) -001922) Follow the instructions to wear a mask as soon as possible to the doctor, and be sure to inform the doctor of his travel history, occupation, contact history, and whether it is clustered (TOCC), and timely diagnosis notification. More information on "Severe Special Infectious Pneumonia" can be found on the website of the Department of Health (https://www.cdc.gov.tw).
 
Source: https://www.cdc.gov.tw/Bulletin/Detail/1T3s2mxcCjqlE0MczXRD8w?typeid=9