The Central Epidemic Epidemic Command Center announced the fourth domestic case of severe special infectious pneumonia overseas. The isolation ward is currently in stable condition.
FacebookShare to Facebook (new window opens)LineShare to Line (new window opens)PrintPrint (new window opens)
linkGet short URL
Back to previous page
Release Date: 2020-01-26
The Central Epidemic Outbreak Command Center announced a new domestic case of severe special infectious pneumonia. It was a female in her 50s in the north. She had a travel history of Wuhan in mainland China from January 13th to 15th. She did not go to the South China seafood market. January Traveling to Europe from 16th to 25th, the case had cough symptoms since January 22, and the cough symptoms worsened on the 25th. On the same day, she returned to Taiwan alone, wearing a mask on the plane and filling in the "Statement of Preventing New Coronavirus Pneumonia Passengers from Entering the Health" Card "and proactively informed the airport quarantine staff at the time of entry, and then sent them to the hospital for treatment in a negative pressure isolation ward. The diagnosis was confirmed today (26). The current health status is stable, and the health unit continues to track the relevant contacts of the return flight to Taiwan. Health situation.

Command Center statistics: As of 4:00 pm on January 26, there were 67 new cases of severe special infectious pneumonia reported in China. Up to now, 350 cases have been reported, including 4 confirmed diagnoses, 147 excluded, 41 negative initial tests, and the rest. Still to be tested.

At present, the third-level warning area in mainland China's tourism epidemic situation has been expanded from Wuhan to Hubei Province, and other provinces and cities have been upgraded to second-level alerts. The command center once again reminded that if people have any discomfort such as fever and cough when entering the country, they should take the initiative to notify the airport and port quarantine staff; if the above-mentioned suspected symptoms occur within 14 days of returning to the country, they can call the toll-free epidemic prevention line 1922 (or 0800-001922) Wear a mask as soon as possible, and follow the instructions to see a doctor as soon as possible, and be sure to inform the doctor of your travel history, occupation, contact history, and whether or not the group (TOCC), and timely diagnosis notification. More information on "Severe Special Infectious Pneumonia" can be found on the website of the Department of Health (https://www.cdc.gov.tw).

Source: https://www.cdc.gov.tw/Bulletin/Detail/1lqFGlxtUhCpE_quNLIfLg?typeid=9