Two newly diagnosed cases of severe special infectious pneumonia entering China have been newly diagnosed in China. The command center continues to take the initiative to care for tourists from China, Hong Kong, and Macao, and fully guards the domestic epidemic prevention.
FacebookShare to Facebook (new window opens)LineShare to Line (new window opens)PrintPrint (new window opens)
linkGet short URL
Back to previous page
Release date: 2020-01-24
The Central Epidemic Epidemic Command Center announced today (24) two newly diagnosed cases of severe special infectious pneumonia overseas, including Chinese women in their 50s (case 1) and Chinese men in their 50s (case 2). Immigration was on January 21; Case 1 was a doctor on January 23 due to a fever. Case 2 developed cold symptoms on January 20 and sought medical treatment on January 23. Because both of them have Wuhan travel or residence history, and meet the definition of the notification, they were confirmed to be positive for new coronavirus after hospital isolation and examination. They are currently being treated in the hospital's negative pressure isolation ward. There are 19 close contacts in Case 1 and 11 close contacts in Case 2. The current health status is good. During the outbreak of other related contacts, the health unit will continue to carry out active health monitoring.

As of 4:00 pm on January 24, there were 35 new cases of severe special infectious pneumonia reported in China. As of now, a total of 168 cases of severe special infectious pneumonia have been reported, and the test results are 3 confirmed diagnoses (1 case was announced on January 21). ), 42 were excluded, 23 were negative at the initial test, and the rest were still to be tested.

The command center continues to coordinate and integrate the resources and manpower of various ministries, strengthen quarantine measures at international airports, small three-way ports, and public risk communication and health education, and ensure the preparation of anti-epidemic materials to prevent the occurrence of false information related to supply shortage or bulging, reducing The public is panicking, and pre-plans and drills for infection control in medical institutions to reduce the impact of the epidemic on the country, and fully guard the domestic epidemic prevention security to ensure the health of the people.

The command center once again called for the general healthy people to develop body temperature, wash their hands with soap, reduce contact with eyes, nose and mouth, and try not to go to crowded public places; if you have fever, cough and shortness of breath, please rest at home Do not go to public places. If it is necessary to go out for medical treatment or deal with important matters, you must wear a mask, wash your hands with soap frequently, and properly handle the nose and mouth secretions.

When people go to mainland China in the near future, they should implement personal hygiene measures such as washing hands frequently with soap and wearing a mask for coughing, avoid contact with wild animals and patients with acute respiratory infections, and avoid entering and exiting traditional markets and medical institutions. If you have fever, cough, or other discomfort when returning to China, you should take the initiative to notify the airport and port quarantine personnel; if you have the above-mentioned suspected symptoms within 14 days of returning to China, you can call the toll-free epidemic prevention line 1922 (or 0800-001922) and wear it according to instructions As soon as the mask comes to the doctor, please inform the doctor of your travel history, occupation, contact history, and whether it is clustered (TOCC), and timely diagnosis notification. For more information on "Severe Special Infectious Pneumonia", please refer to the website of the Department of Health (https://www.cdc.gov.tw).

Source: https://www.cdc.gov.tw/Bulletin/Detail/ozDpnZZxwa-kBKTXbdS0Kw?typeid=9