The Central Epidemic Epidemic Command Center announced the fifth domestic case of severe special infectious pneumonia overseas, and the health unit has initiated prevention and treatment in accordance with the relevant disposal procedures
FacebookShare to Facebook (new window opens)LineShare to Line (new window opens)PrintPrint (new window opens)
linkGet short URL
Back to previous page
Release date: 2020-01-27
The Central Epidemic Epidemic Command Center announced the fifth confirmed case of severe special infectious pneumonia overseas migration in China. It is a female in her mid 50s who went to work in Wuhan, Mainland China in late October (2019). There is no history of South China seafood market activities and poultry. Animal contact history. I returned to Taiwan on January 20 this year. On January 25, she developed fever and muscle soreness and sought medical treatment. The hospital immediately notified and treated the negative pressure isolation ward. The diagnosis was confirmed today (27). At present, the case is in a stable condition. Hospitals and local health units have followed the relevant disposal procedures to carry out epidemic investigations and contact tracing.

According to the statistics of the command center, 119 cases of severe special infectious pneumonia were newly reported in China yesterday (26). A total of 402 cases have been reported, including 5 confirmed diagnoses, 190 exclusions, and 207 isolation tests (88 initial negative, The rest to be tested). Five confirmed cases were stable and continued to be hospitalized and quarantined. Except for the 4th and 5th confirmed case contacts, the total number of contacts in the first 3 confirmed cases was 384, of which 14 were reported with symptoms. Negatives have been ruled out and 8 people are testing).

According to the report from the China Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the health and health committees of various provinces and municipalities, as of January 26, a total of 2,744 cases of pneumonia of new coronavirus infection were diagnosed in China, of which 461 were severe, 80 were dead, and 31 were (Including Hong Kong and Macao Special Administrative Region) Only the Tibet Autonomous Region has no confirmed or suspected cases. Currently, there are 52 confirmed cases internationally except China, 8 in Thailand, 8 in Hong Kong, 5 in Macau, 5 in the United States, 4 in Australia, 4 in Malaysia, 4 in Japan, 4 in Singapore, 3 in France, and South Korea. 3 cases, 2 cases in Vietnam, 1 case in Nepal and 1 case in Canada.

The command center once again appealed to the public to report to the airport and port quarantine personnel any uncomfortable symptoms such as fever and cough when entering the country from abroad; if the above-mentioned suspected symptoms occur within 14 days of returning to the country, they can call the toll-free epidemic prevention line 1922 (or 0800) -001922) Follow the instructions to wear a mask as soon as possible to the doctor, and be sure to inform the doctor of his travel history, occupation, contact history, and whether it is clustered (TOCC), and timely diagnosis notification. More information on "Severe Special Infectious Pneumonia" can be found on the website of the Department of Health (https://www.cdc.gov.tw).

Source: cdc.gov.tw/Bulletin/Detail/gOZvd4ZaGpSDVoVRC2Qesg?typeid=9