
Wuhan Municipal Health and Health Commission's Report on Unexplained Viral Pneumonia
Issuing authority: Wuhan City health committee | Published: 2020-01-03 17:00:42 | Hits:  85030  | Font Size:  Tai Zhong Small

Since December 2019 , our committee has carried out surveillance of respiratory diseases and related diseases, and found cases of viral pneumonia of unknown cause. The clinical manifestations of the cases are mainly fever, a few patients have difficulty breathing, and chest radiographs show invasive lesions of both lungs. As of 8:00 on January 3, 2020, a total of 44 patients with unexplained diagnosis of viral pneumonia were found, of which 11 were critically ill, and the vital signs of the remaining patients were generally stable. At present, all cases are being treated in isolation at medical institutions in Wuhan. 121 close contacts have been tracked for medical observation. Close followers are still being tracked.

An epidemiological survey showed that some cases were operated by the South China Seafood City in Wuhan. As of now, preliminary investigations have shown no clear evidence of human-to-human transmission and no medical staff infections. Pathogen identification (including nucleic acid detection and virus isolation and culture) and cause tracing are ongoing, and common respiratory diseases such as influenza, avian influenza, and adenovirus infection have been ruled out.

After the outbreak, the State and Provincial Health and Health Committee attached great importance to it and sent working groups and expert groups to Wuhan to guide the local epidemic response and disposal work. The Wuhan Municipal Health and Health Committee has conducted relevant case searches and retrospective investigations in medical institutions throughout the city, and has completed the environmental sanitation disposal of South China Seafood City, and further hygiene investigations are ongoing.



                                                      January 3, 2020

Source: http://wjw.wuhan.gov.cn/front/web/showDetail/2020010309017