The Central Epidemic Epidemic Command Center announced two new cases of severe special infectious pneumonia that had migrated abroad. The command center expanded and upgraded the tourism epidemic in mainland China (excluding Hong Kong and Macao) to the third level warning. It appealed to the public to respond if necessary. Avoid going
FacebookShare to Facebook (new window opens)LineShare to Line (new window opens)PrintPrint (new window opens)
linkGet short URL
Back to previous page
Release date: 2020-01-28
The Central Epidemic Epidemic Command Center announced today (28) that two newly diagnosed cases of severe special infectious pneumonia abroad were imported from China. They were all females of over 70 years living in Wuhan, who arrived in Taiwan on January 22 this year. He had fever symptoms on January 25. He was notified and admitted to a negative-pressure isolation ward. The diagnosis was confirmed today (28). No pneumonia was reported. The patient is currently in stable condition. The hospital and local health unit have conducted epidemic investigations in accordance with relevant disposal procedures. And contact tracking.
According to the command center's statistics, there were 130 new cases of severe special infectious pneumonia reported in China yesterday (27). A total of 530 cases have been reported, including 7 confirmed diagnoses and 269 excluded. The remaining isolation tests (98 were negative for the initial test, the rest were To be tested). The status of 7 confirmed cases was stable and continued to be hospitalized and quarantined. Except for the 6th and 7th confirmed case contacts to be tracked, the remaining 5 confirmed case contacts totaled 470, of which 16 had reported symptoms. Negatives have been ruled out and 6 people are being tested).

According to the report from the China Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the health and health committees of various provinces and cities, as of January 27, a total of 4,515 cases of pneumonia of new coronavirus infection were diagnosed in China, of which 976 were severe, 106 died, and 31 provinces (excluding cities) (Hong Kong and Macao Special Administrative Region) Only Tibet Autonomous Region has no confirmed or suspected cases. Based on the continuous occurrence of cases in all provinces in mainland China and the rapid increase, the epidemic situation is severe; and the WHO has stated that the virus has human-to-human transmission ability and increased risk of infection, the command center will recommend a tourism epidemic situation to the third level warning range today (28) Expansion to mainland China (excluding Hong Kong and Macau), please avoid all unnecessary travel to the local area.

At present, except China, there are a total of 62 confirmed cases, 8 in Thailand, 8 in Hong Kong, 7 in Macau, 5 in the United States, 5 in Australia, 5 in Singapore, 4 in Malaysia, 4 in Japan, 4 in South Korea, and France. 3 cases, 2 cases in Vietnam, 2 cases in Nepal, 2 cases in Canada, 1 case in Cambodia, 1 case in Sri Lanka and 1 case in Germany.

The command center once again appealed to the public to report to the airport and port quarantine personnel any uncomfortable symptoms such as fever and cough when entering the country from abroad; if the above-mentioned suspected symptoms occur within 14 days of returning to the country, they can call the toll-free epidemic prevention line 1922 (or 0800) -001922) Follow the instructions to wear a mask as soon as possible to the doctor, and be sure to inform the doctor of his travel history, occupation, contact history, and whether it is clustered (TOCC), and timely diagnosis notification. More information on "Severe Special Infectious Pneumonia" can be found on the website of the Department of Health (https://www.cdc.gov.tw).

Source: https://www.cdc.gov.tw/Bulletin/Detail/-lN6bM-ZCU-nWv1gUIXxOg?typeid=9