Press release of the Ministry of Health on a case of novel coronavirus at Preah Sihanouk province and preventive measures for (2019-nCoV).
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The Ministry of Health of the Kingdom of Cambodia wishes to inform the public that as of 3 pm on 27 Jan 2020, the Ministry has identified a positive case of (2019-nCoV) as confirmed by Pasteur Institute in Cambodia for a Chinese national, male, aged 60, who traveled from Wuhan as a family of 4, but only he tested positive. [The other travelers are a female, 57 years old; a male, 38 years old; and a female, 33 years old.]

Based on their travel history, he and the family left Wuhan for Preah Sihanouk province on 23 Jan 2020; the onset of symptoms, including fever and runny nose, was 25 Jan 2020. All of them are from Wuhan city of the People's Republic of China, arrived in Cambodia through a direct flight from Wuhan and arrived at Preah Sihanouk international airport on 23 Jan 2020 at 7 am. Upon arrival at Preah Sihanouk, they took a taxi and stayed at Independence Hotel for 2 nights. Later they moved to Queenco Hotel in the afternoon of 25 Jan 2020. In that afternoon, the patient used the swimming pool for 2 hours and then experienced a fever. In the evening of the same day, his wife called to their family in China and inform them that her husband had a fever.

Upon information from HE Kuoch Chamroeun, Governor of Preah Sihanouk province, on 26 Jan 2020, the provincial authority and the Director of the Provincial Health Department and rapid response team of Preah Sihanouk provincial health department actively investigated these cases and confirmed that they were staying at Queenco Hotel in Preah Sihanouk province. The health task force of Preah Sihanouk province took the samples as advised by the MOH on the same day and sent samples from nose and throat of the 4 people to be tested at Pasteur Institute Cambodia. On 27 Jan 2020 at 3 pm, there was a confirmation that the man tested positive for 2019-nCoV.

Currently, based on close observation by the medical team, the patient is in stable condition and he experienced only flu symptoms; his family members have not experienced any health problems. The medical team is closely monitoring their health conditions.

The following are measures undertaken by the MOH and the PHD along with the provincial authority:
- Isolate the patient at Preah Sihanouk Hospital for follow up and careful treatment;
- quarantine his family members and identification of other contacts for health education and health monitoring;
- disinfection of the patient's room;
- report to the Chinese Embassy in Cambodia on this positive case.

The MOH of the Kingdom of Cambodia is closely monitoring the situation of this new type of pneumonia and requests those who return from Wuhan, Hubei province of the People's Republic of China to closely monitor their health and if they experienced fever, runny nose, or breathing difficulty or shortness of breath to immediately seek medical attention from public health facilities or if they have any question or queries on their health problems to call the hotline 115 of the Communicable Disease Control Department of the MOH.

The MOH wishes to also provide an update of the disease as of 8 am of 27 Jan 2020; based on the WHO report, there are 2744 positive cases reported from 30 provinces of the People's Republic of China including 461 severe cases and 80 deaths. There are 5794 suspected cases including 729 new cases with 137 severe cases and 24 new death cases from Hubei. There are 8 cases in Hong Kong, China, 5 in Macau, and 4 in Taiwan. Meanwhile, there are 7 reported cases in Thailand, 3 cases in Japan, 3 in South Korea, 3 in USA, 2 in Viet Nam, 4 in Singapore, 3 in Malaysia, 1 in Nepal, 3 in France, and 4 in Australia.

There are 32 799 contacts/close contacts who are quarantined of whom 583 have been discharged while 30 453 cases are still quarantined.

Please note that there is so far no clear indication of the source of the infection and the mode of transmission of this new disease. However, there is a limited human to human transmission and currently, it is observed that the disease could be transmitted during the incubation period before the onset of medical symptoms.

To prevent the spread of the disease from this Chinese traveler, HE Mam Bunheng, Minister of Health, urged the public especially those returning from Wuhan city of the People's Republic of China to exercise the highest precaution by keeping their own health through simple measures as outlined below. If they have symptoms including fever, cough, breathing difficulty both during travel or after travel to immediately see a medical doctor (from the nearest public health facility) and also inform about the travel history and your symptoms.

HE Mam Bunheng, Minister of Health, declared the following: "I urge the public to exercise maximum precaution to prevent the transmission of pneumonia caused by this novel coronavirus as identified in Preah Sihanouk province on 27 Jan 2020 through the implementation of the following measures:
1. Avoid close contact with people with acute respiratory infections or suspected cases;
2. frequently wash your hands (with soap and clean water) especially after direct contact with the patient or his or her environment;
3. avoid close contact or travel to the market or farm with live or wild animals or locations with known virus circulation. It is necessary to regularly wash your hands before and after contact with animals or other materials that could be the sources of disease transmission;
4. adhere to and implement healthy practices and food safety measures such as eating well cooked food especially for meat and eggs;
5. for those with acute respiratory infections, cover your mouth and nose with scarf or tissue while coughing or sneezing;
6. adhere to good hand hygiene and cough etiquette (for instance cover your mouth and nose while coughing or sneezing, hand washing after contact with body fluid from the respiratory tract, and keep a 1-meter distance from those with acute respiratory infections);
7. healthcare workers who provide medical care need to strictly abide by infection and prevention control measures in health facilities to avoid being infected;
8. if new pneumonia caused by the novel coronavirus is suspected with symptoms including fever of more than 38 deg Celsius and one of the following symptoms, including cough, runny nose, sore throat, shortness of breath and difficulty breathing and travel history from China with contact with a person with respiratory infection, contact with sick animals 14 days prior to the onset of symptoms or history of contact with a patient dying from respiratory infections of unknown etiology, please immediately call to the hotline 115.

The Ministry of Health continues the investigation of the case above and will inform the public on the health evolution through the home page and Facebook pages of the MOH, Facebook page and home page of the Communicable Disease Control Department (http://cdcmoh.gov.kh) in which health education materials on prevention of respiratory diseases can be downloaded.

For additional information, please contact the hotline 115 even your telephones have no credit or contact the MOH officials:
- Dr Ly Sovann, Tel.: 012 825 424
- Dr Yi Seng Doeurn, Tel.: 012 488 981
- Ms Dr Teng Srey, Tel.: 012 836 868
Phnom Penh 27 Jan 2020
