Wuhan Municipal Health and Health Commission's Report on Unexplained Viral Pneumonia
Issuing authority: Wuhan City health committee | Published: 2020-01-11 07:04:11 | Hits:  53659  | Font Size:  Tai Zhong Small

    After the pathogen of "unknown cause of viral pneumonia" was initially determined to be a new type of coronavirus, the national, provincial and municipal expert groups immediately revised and improved the plans for diagnosis, treatment, and monitoring of unexplained viral pneumonia. The Wuhan Municipal Health and Health Committee has organized tests on existing patient specimens. As of 14:00 on January 10, 2020, the detection of pathogenic nucleic acids has been completed. The national, provincial and municipal expert groups comprehensively judged the clinical manifestations, epidemiological history, and laboratory test results of patients admitted to the hospital for observation, treatment, and preliminary diagnosis of 41 cases of pneumonia with new coronavirus infection, of which 2 were discharged Seven cases were severe and one died. The remaining patients were in stable condition. All 739 close contacts, including 419 medical staff, have undergone medical observation and no related cases have been found.

    Since the outbreak, with the support of the state and Hubei Province, Wuhan has cooperated with relevant departments to carry out the prevention and treatment in an orderly manner. First, we have tried our best to treat patients. Develop a work plan for diagnosis and treatment, and effectively implement early detection, early diagnosis, early isolation, and early treatment, and focus on experts and resources to give full treatment. The second is to carry out in-depth epidemiological investigations. The investigation found that the patients were mainly operating and purchasing staff of the South China Seafood Wholesale Market in Wuhan City. On January 1, 2020, the South China Seafood Wholesale Market has been closed and measures have been taken to further strengthen disease prevention guidance and environmental hygiene in public places in the city, especially the farmers' market. management. The third is to widely publicize the knowledge of disease prevention and enhance public awareness of self-protection. The fourth is to cooperate with the state and province to carry out pathogenic research. The fifth is to cooperate with the National Health and Health Commission to report the epidemic situation information to the World Health Organization in a timely manner.

    No new cases have been detected since January 3, 2020. At present, no medical staff infections have been found, and no clear evidence of human-to-human transmission has been found. Our city will continue to strengthen patient treatment, epidemiological investigations, carry out in-depth patriotic health campaigns, do a good job in spreading knowledge of disease prevention, and safeguard the health of the people.

    At present, it is in the season of high incidence of infectious diseases in winter and spring. The public must maintain indoor air circulation, try to avoid closed public areas and crowded places, and wear masks if necessary. If you have fever, respiratory infection symptoms, especially persistent fever, go to a medical institution in time.   

 

 

                                                                 January 11, 2020

Source:http://wjw.wuhan.gov.cn/front/web/showDetail/2020011109035