Questions and answers on pneumonia epidemic of new coronavirus infection
(January 14, 2020)
Issuing authority: Wuhan City health committee | Published: 2020-01-15 00:10:06 | Hits:  44029  | Font Size:  Tai Zhong Small
1. Recently, a tourist from Wuhan was diagnosed with a new coronavirus-infected pneumonia patient in Thailand. Please provide relevant information.

On January 13, 2020, Thailand reported a pneumonia case of a new coronavirus infection from Wuhan. The city attaches great importance to timely investigation. The patient is a citizen of our city and is now receiving treatment in Thailand with a stable condition. At the same time, the health department conducted medical observations on all close contacts of the patient found, and currently there is no abnormal performance.

2. At present, in order to detect pneumonia cases of new coronavirus infection as early as possible, what measures has our city taken?

After the outbreak, our city quickly carried out relevant case screening in all medical institutions in the city. Up to now, the expert group has integrated the clinical manifestations, epidemiological history, and laboratory test results of patients to determine new pneumococcal infections. 41 example. Recently, our city has further strengthened case monitoring and search work. On the one hand, we continue to do a good job of monitoring for unknown causes of pneumonia; on the other hand, we carry out case searches in various medical institutions at all levels in our city in order to detect cases early.

3. As of now, is there any case of human-to-human transmission?

Existing survey results show that clear human-to-human evidence has not been found, and the possibility of limited human-to-human transmission cannot be ruled out, but the risk of continued human-to-human transmission is low. At present, further research is being carried out combining clinical and epidemiological data.

4. Has a family clustering case been found?

Of the 41 cases currently diagnosed , one was found to be clustered in the family. The husband and wife developed the disease first, and the husband first developed the disease. He was an employee of the South China Seafood Wholesale Market, and his wife denied a history of South China Seafood Wholesale Market exposure.

5. What are close contacts? Why medical observation of close contacts for 14 days? If close contacts develop symptoms during the observation period, how can they be diagnosed and treated?

At present, the close contacts defined in this epidemic are those who live with patients, work and study in the same room, live in the same room, and who have not taken effective protective measures during the diagnosis and treatment of cases. Laboratory testing personnel, other patients or accompanying staff in the ward, other contact situations determined by disease control professionals in the same transportation with patients and close contact with people.

With reference to the incubation period of diseases caused by other coronaviruses, information about this new coronavirus case, and current prevention and control practices, the medical observation period for close contacts was set to 14 days, and home medical observations were made for close contacts. During the observation period, once the close contacts are found to have abnormal clinical manifestations such as fever and cough, the close contacts will be sent to the designated medical institution for investigation, diagnosis and treatment in a timely manner.

6. What are the characteristics of the epidemic cases that have been found so far? What is the development trend of the epidemic situation?

Of the 41 cases diagnosed, the majority were male, and the number of middle-aged and elderly patients was higher. In the early stage of the case, fever and cough are the main symptoms, which can be manifested as persistent mild disease in the early stage. Patients who are older or have a basic disease tend to progress to severe disease.

Preliminary results of existing etiology studies and epidemiological investigations show that most of the cases are related to the South China Seafood Wholesale Market exposure, a few cases have no history of South China Seafood Wholesale Market exposure, and some cases have been exposed to similar cases. No community transmission has been identified.

7. After closing the South China Seafood Wholesale Market, are there any findings in the market? What measures have other markets taken?

After the South China Seafood Wholesale Market was closed, the city strengthened its disposal of market environmental hygiene, carried out disinfection and sanitary disposal of the market, and carried out garbage cleaning and disinfection. In order to strengthen the traceability work, environmental specimens are collected and tested in the market. At present, the test results found that some samples were positive for the new coronavirus. At the same time, preliminary investigations have been conducted in other markets, and no clues related to the source of the infection have been found.

Source: http://wjw.wuhan.gov.cn/front/web/showDetail/2020011509040