Experts explain the latest bulletin of unknown cause of viral pneumonia
Issuing authority: Wuhan City health committee | Published: 2020-01-11 09:20:07 | Hits:  30876  | Font Size:  Tai Zhong Small
    Q: How was this outbreak diagnosed?

    Answer: Based on the patient's clinical manifestations, epidemiological history, and pathogenic test results, a comprehensive study is made.

 

    Q: What are the characteristics of the clinical manifestations of this outbreak?                    

    Answer: The clinical manifestations are systemic symptoms such as fever and fatigue, accompanied by dry cough, and dyspnea in hospitalized patients is more common. Vital signs were generally stable at the time of admission.

 

    Q: There is currently one death case. What is the specific situation?

    Answer: The patient was a 61-year-old male. He was admitted to the hospital due to respiratory failure and severe pneumonia, and also suffered from abdominal tumors and chronic liver disease. The patient purchases goods from the South China Seafood Market in Wuhan. After admission to the hospital, symptomatic support, anti-infection, ventilator-assisted breathing, continuous ECMO in vitro life support, and other treatments were not improved. On January 9, 2020, the heartbeat stopped and she died after rescue. The results of the etiology test indicated that the new coronavirus was positive for nucleic acid. The deaths were diagnosed as severe pneumonia, acute respiratory distress syndrome (severe), septic shock, multiple organ failure, severe acid-base metabolism disorders, and liver cirrhosis. The direct cause of death was respiratory circulation failure.

 

    Q: What does it mean that the report says "no new cases have been detected since January 3, 2020"?

    Answer: According to epidemiological surveys by national, provincial and municipal experts, the incidence of unexplained viral pneumonia in Wuhan this time was between December 8, 2019 and January 2, 2020. Since January 3, 2020, clinical and epidemiological investigations have revealed no patients with new infections.

 

    Q: How to understand "No clear evidence of human-to-human transmission"?

    Answer: According to epidemiological surveys by national, provincial and municipal experts, most of the unexplained viral pneumonia cases in Wuhan this time have a history of exposure to the South China seafood market. No clear evidence of human-to-human transmission has been found. We are further conducting epidemiological investigations and related laboratory tests. In addition, all close contacts, including medical staff, have so far not detected any related cases.

Source: http://wjw.wuhan.gov.cn/front/web/showDetail/2020011109036